Not just look at it later which helps in it creating elements these are an exception in the previous
lesson and we'll see how it can be prevented by using any.
And it there is simply an interface and to access an instance of a character Vinita in the IT DID IT
AND method that is declared in the interface which is from the Gelada lying package because the collection
interface extends the digital interface on collection implementations like the deadliest implement.
It did it at a method by extending it above that collection interfaces saying that its elements can
be triggered from each statement or request any object it takes to implement the table interface later
in the demo.
We will actually test this out as we can see here.
You did have an interface that's three minutes later for each and speculator you did it that is abstract
when the other two are different methods which are what I did in July 8.
So the interface provides a different implementation for these last two methods that are meant there
.
As mentioned earlier written an iterator which can be used for it reading the elements of the collection
internally for each statement also invokes this method for dating the collection elements.
Next is for each method and this method can be in-road if we want to perform certain action for each
element of the collection.
And this action would be a method in an object which is passed us input but for each method.
Hence we can see that the parameter name here is action.
So the method that is part of the input object will be invoked for each element of the collection and
the methods input will be the element itself.
So the method would how only a single parameter.
Now you can see that the parameter type for this for each method is consumer which is an interface that
was introduced in July.
It doesn't if it has a single abstract matter will accept.
So we need to pass either an instance of consumer which implements accepte method or we can pass lambda
expressions on method references which are Djala 8 features that we will discuss later.
So let's not worry about this method for now.
But to briefly look at it in our Demel tournament with the disputed rigor which is also ordered in Java
8 and we're also not going to discuss it for now but it seems to be mainly useful for splitting elements
of collection into partitions so that we can process those partitions using some interrupts.
So if we have elements which would run into several hundreds of millions then this method can be used
to partition those elements on unprocessed does partitions through some parallel competition.
That way it would be very efficient.
We may look at it later but it is definitely not important for now.
And here is likely to create an interface if you will that it did it in matter of our list Egerton's
an instance of this interface idlest basically has a nested class which implements this interface.
So an instance of that master class will be returned when it did it at a method is invoked.
It can be used to all of the elements of the collection we already know that.
But in addition it also lets you remove an element during their duration which we could not do in the
previous demo.
And the use skills for this could be that you may have to do with a list of elements from the database
.
Now you want to the most some of them which meet certain criteria.
In this case as we address the elements VIGEN be the ones which meet that criteria are needed it has
this format.
It's obviously remore would be used for removing an element forEachRamaining meaning that there is a
default method which is similar to the from each method and it did it all end of his let's actually
head over to eclipse to see how all these methods work.
OK.
Before we implement it today the related code.
Let's take a look at the exception that we got in the previous demo.
So here we are in the list Demopolis.
And here we are iterating through the elements of the order list and when we reach the element which
is the second element we are trying to remove that element and that's when we're getting this exception
called concurrent modification exception.
So let's just go ahead and run this program.
So here we are.
So when we run it when we reach element 9 the element 9 is getting branded.
And then when we tried to remove that element we are getting this exception called concurrent modification
exception.
We'll see how this can be prevented using a good actor.
So let me just comment this ok no one change I made in this method is rerouting the other list in the
earlier the more we were turning a wide.
So now we are reading and we are returning an hour elapsed and then the main matter.
Here we are.
So the the other is a miser getting an alias so be it assigning it to an other list here or list under
invoking that pneumatic call.
It did it demo.
And we are passing this list as an argument.
And here is the new method.
So let's just go ahead and finish this matter.
So the input parameter is list.
So we know that in order to get the data we need to enroll it in it and get there off idlest on the
list.
So let's do that.
So it's just an iterator here and its name it does it later.
Now this one would return an instance of it did it or interface.
And since the list has integers so the Jenrette notation would include integer.
OK now we need to iterate it unfolded it.
We can use either a white or a look but normally do it direct using an iterator wide loop is more cleaner
.
So let's use dot here.
All we need to do is say it greater DOT has Next we need to invoke the has an X method.
So Hasenfus McMurtry.
Either a true or false if it returns true.
It means that there are more elements to be evaluated.
Now if it returns false it means that we are done with it rating through all the elements.
OK so now let's assume that it has returned true.
That's right the body here.
So in order to get the next element we need to just invoke the next method.
And the next method would read and the next element.
But since this is this idlest has integers let's assign it to an integer here it's called it does a
element here.
OK.
So this would automatically unblocks and would assign it to the meadow.
And let's also bring this element here.
Now we know that if element equals nine we need to remove it.
And for that we can use the every moment third on the letter K and it's also printed here.
So let's go under on this.
So as you can see initially there are five elements of 1 9 8 6 and 1.
So after removing the element only four elements are there.
OK.
That is what is getting printed here.
So we no longer get to get that particular exception called concurrent modification exception.
So if you want to remove an element during a duration need to use the editor.
So that's the main benefit of it.
Now we also mentioned that in order to integrate this object list one for example in this because it's
an analyst has to implement the interface and we know that it implements they did have an interface
.
So if it doesn't implement a terrible interface then we would get a compilation error which means that
we cannot it the elements of the collection.
No let's say for example for instance we want to iterate through the list M-y itself.
OK so let's create an object here as you can see if we get a compile error it says can only iterate
over an array or an instance off of July Dr. Langhart.
It did.
But so this particular class this demo is not implementing it did happen.
So let's just go ahead and make it implement.
It did.
So let's go here.
Here it is.
Let me just uncommon this so it is implementing and it did have it but it was a compilation error because
we need to implement unimplemented methods which is that it did it.
So we need to implement a method here.
So let's do that.
I'd say public.
It should have done it better off and deeper
and could be delayed or monitored and it should return an instance of a director because right I would
only do later are in this case since we are just doing a demo on let's just see new idlest let's use
the it did it at off what it asked.
So in this case it would been ambulanced are now you can see that there is no more no more exception
here competition.
There is no computer that are here anymore.
So it is able do here.
So which means that the list is a little bit long.
OK.
So that's what you need to do.
You need to implement the interface if you want your objects to be iterated.
If you are elements to be triggered not like me change it back.
Good list.
So what it means is what it meant internally it invokes the the later method off the object that is
here and then it uses the instance that is returned by the director who did it with the elements.
OK so it is internally going to invoke the method of this particular object.
OK.
Now the reason why this concussion modification exception has generated is because it is actually generated
by the data that is internally written.
So on VH1 and it is a rating it is using the data internally to get the elements but externally here
within this method it is trying to remove some limit and it does not allow us to do that.
So it does not allow us to concurrently modify the underlying idlest.
So that's why it's called a concurrent modification exception.
And if we tried to do that the next method the next method within the iterator.
Through this concurrent modification exception.
For instance you may be able to remove this element but then in the next iteration Venite window for
each statement internally when it tries to use the next method then the underlying iterator built through
that exception the the next method with toady's concurrent modification exception because it does not
allow us to concurrently modify the audio list.
OK so now when it means modification it means structural modification and structural modification would
be either removing an element or adding an element of adding an element.
We would see in the next lesson when rediscuss listed character which is a sub interface of a character
.
So you can also add an element using glister detector.
So if you structurally modify either using art or a moment that's then we get this exception but replacement
is fine.
You can use Set method.
There is in list distributor which you will see again in the next lesson.
So that is fine as long as it is not concurrent modification.
We are good but if it is going to go and modification it is not possible to do it.
We will get this exception.
And if it has to be concurrently I mean if it has to be modified structurally modified then it can be
done only one way which is using it did it at itself.
So you can either use the you can use the remote method offer did it as we have seen and that gives
it just fine.
But if we are trying to modify the structure in any way other than using the methods of a director then
we will get this exception.
OK.
On such an iterator which gives a concrete modification exception is called as a fail fast.
It did it.
It's called Failed fast.
The reason is because it is failing fast it is failing quickly and all that general purpose implementations
like are a list link list and so on.
Do implement do support only fail fast.
It does get so they do throw this exception so that it can get an modification exception and do.
Why did we need to we can modify the structure thought it is using an iterator.
OK so that's the iterator.
That's all you need to know about it.
But we also looked at the for each method in the interface and we also look for each of the meaning
.
Ok so those I don't think we will use it very often.
For each Maybe we will use but I don't think for each of the meaning we will use it very often.
I don't see any uses for that.
So you might argue use it very much so but for the sake of completeness let's also look at those matters
.
So it's already here.
So here we are calling for each method and which is a declared an incredible interface.
OK.
So we would just say our IList object not for each.
And here for each of the input the input parameter is consumer.
But we said that it can be invoked using a matter reference.
So this is metadata for instance this is something new for us.
So here we are just passing a reference to the matter.
So the method is putting a line on this Prindle and motard system dot dot print Dalen will be invoked
for each element off the order list.
And that element will also be passed as input with the print on and printed on method.
OK so let's just go ahead and run it.
Actually let me Coleman this out here it's
not real good.
So as you can see these four elements are printed by them for each for each motard in location 1 8 6
and 1.
OK.
Now let me comment it out.
Now I haven't done a matter call your filter sorry a classical filter here and that filter glass also
has a method called Filter.
So we are here we are.
And it would print an element only if input.
But I mean if the value passed in what parameter is 1.
So it's just earlier we hope the print doesn't matter.
Here we are invoking the free delimiter of our own custom class that we have done.
OK so far.
When we look at the reference we use this Colons double 2 colons here.
So let me just print it.
But in this case it would print only 1 and 1 and that's because the filter method is of the four elements
at this printing only one.
OK.
Because there are 1 8 6 and 1.
So here the filter that we are applying is 1 if we are saying if it is I equals one or need an open
ended.
So that's the one on the third one as we can either posit matter differences or lambda us which are
Djala 8 features are we can also pass an instance of consumer.
Can I read is giving a compilation error because we need to implement the consumer interface.
Ok so we need to implement it because the filter here is not implementing it.
So let me uncommon did.
Now it implements the Kansi you want interface which has only a method called accept.
So we need to do this method gets invoked now.
So it is also doing the same thing printing the elemental if I is equal to 1.
So as you can see there is no more compilation error.
I don't need that element one is getting another.
OK so even in this case when we are invoking the method through using a method reference in dentally
there some magic.
I think it's dynamic by using dynamic proxy or whatever it internally in the byte code.
We will be passing an instance of guns you would get passed on that instance would include the accepte
method.
So the instance will be created everything will be done internally itself inside the bytecode the compiler
will do that.
So so so that they can get off in Bonaly so it will still pass an instance of consumer even though it
is a matter reference.
So that is done internally but let's not worry about it.
Now finally let's look at for each of the many.
So it's a bit confusing this for each motard on for each of the meeting mattered since they have similar
names for each is inside is defined by terrible.
But for each any meaning is defined by the interface.
It's also a Djala 8.
And here we are in working the odd matter in the filter and the augmented.
All it does is it adds this value 7 to the element unfussy each new meaning.
All it does is.
So so far we have two elements.
The first element and the second element was nine here.
So nine is that the matter is activated and once we reach nine we are removing it.
And for all the subsequent elements 8 6 and 1.
So we are saying for each remaining element in will the add method.
So basically the remaining three elements will be activated by this method itself.
And so the wild method will not continue to exit.
OK so all the remaining elements will be directed by using through this single location.
So that's where it says it is Galdos for each remaining again for each here for each method we do for
all of the elements but for each remaining is all it did it through all the uninitiated elements the
items that were not iterated so far.
So let's just go ahead and run this.
So it is for each of the meaning here as printing Rufin because 7 was added to 8 in the Agde method
and 6 7 was added to 6 which resulted in 13 and 7 was added to 1.
So the last three elements for the last three elements this method I'd got I got involved.
So that's for each remaining but I don't think you will use it very much.
So that's about it.
So that's the iterator.
The main advantage as you can direct and at the same time you can also remove the elements and we also
looked at for each unflushed each remaining richer Gela 8 features.
Now one thing I forgot to mention is that the location of that of a moment there must be must be preceded
by the invocation of next method.
OK so only after you invoke the next method will you be able to invoke the right moment.
Otherwise we get a compilation error because that implementor would remove the element that was returned
by the next method.
OK.
So if you can be taught in walking next then we get a compilation error.
So for instance let's put in the statement here.
It did it or not remote.
So this is the second amendment that would throw an exception here that you are giving us an illegal
state exception.
OK.
So the flustering moment there was fine because it was secured by next but the second remote method
is giving us this exception OK because it has to be preceded by next.
So that's that's one thing I wanted to mention.
So that's about it.
Thank you.
And happy coding.
Or you can find the find the code in the resources section.
Thank you